The TAM SamSom is the model that
everyone now uses to estimate
the size of the market.
It’s fine because you go from above
down to apply a series of hypotheses
and if you do it right you can
come to conclusions that
make sense.
How does it work?
TAM is the Total Addressable
Market.
It is the total market.
You can give you an idea of the
growth potential and we’re going down.
The SAM is the market
you can serve.
You often can’t serve the
entire market because you have
some limitations for your business
model, your geographic
capacity, etc.
Now let us look at an example.
In the bottom, this would be your target
market because it is where you with
your limitations, with your current
model, with your current structure
can reach.
We continue down and we reach the SOM
that is the Obtainable, it is the one
you can get.
To estimate what you can get
that would be, for example,
imagine a market share on
the SAM.
Well, here what you have to do is
apply a little there are a lot
of people who are fooled, but good.
What is the difference between getting
a higher or lower share?
It will depend on your current share,
the money you have, whether you
have a super important, a competitive
advantage, how much you are
growing, well, that kind of
thing.
Let us see it with an example.
Let’s put the example of your
lottery, the app to buy lottery,
etc.
What is the TAM?
What is the total market?
And let’s think of Spain because your
lottery is present in several countries.
In Spain, the total lottery
market is around 8.5 billion.
And now we’re down, but what
is your lottery business
model?
Selling through an application.
We will use this, that filter,
that criterion.
Well, let’s see what percentage,
I’m not giving the full
data, but let’s.
How much of the lottery is
sold online today?
It is about 10%.
So your SAM is 850 million.
It’s true that we could grow
a lot and we’ll grow a lot that
percentage, but well, we’
ll start from what’s gone
today, right?
Then the SAM, the lottery market
that is sold over the internet,
is 850 million.
So now you have to get to the SOM,
the Obtainable and say, well,
how much will I get from those
850 million?
How long will I get?
With a very differentiated
proposal, almost without
direct competitors, growing more
than the others, with a competitive
advantage because you have a good
application, etc.
Well, then what you do here is apply
common sense and you say, well, because
I’m going to stay with the 10% of
that market, with the 1, with the
20, you know?
It will depend on each case.
But as you can see, this structure
makes sense because you go from
top to bottom applying a number
of criteria that are quite
reasonable.
This is very good to use whenever
you have to make an estimate of
the size of the market and more
because you’ll get well, you know?
Because it’s a model that’
s pretty easy to defend and is
pretty easy to understand.